CH.XXVIII.

ANALYSIS. ⁴

were bribed. Bulbus, Staienus, and Gutta convicted.
(ἓ 76) There was some hesitation among the jurors

owing to the rumoured corruption, buta conviction

was obtained, only five voting Not Guilty.

(ἓ 77) Quinctius made recent unpopular verdicts the text

XXIX.

XXX.

XXXI.

XXXII.

for an agitation against the senate. (ξ 78) Then
Staienus was compelled to confess and disgorge. Pre-
judice was kindled. Men thought it was the conviction
that was bought ; (ἓ 79) they knew nothing of Oppi-
anicus, and were inflamed by Quinctius. C. Junius,
who presided, though on the verge of the praetorship,
was driven from public life. (ἓ 80) Ι arn glad the

, storrn is a little blown over now, for then Cluentius

could not have got a hearing. (ἓ 81) In fact he did
not bribe; (ἕ 82) it has never been traced in his
books. It was Oppianicus who objected to Staienus’
absence at the vote; (ἓ 83) and then compare the

characters of the men. (§§ 84-86) It is suggested - ’-

that Oppianicus gave Staienus the money to appease
Cluentius. But peace in the abandonment of the
prosecution, or Oppianicus’ safety‚ was impossible.
It was a lie of Staienus’‚ invented at a time when any
lie was better than truth‚ and probably was prompted
by Cethegus. (ἓ 87) They suggest also it was to
bribe Cluentius to betray the prosecution. But

why employ a juror and a man like Staienus? The—

sum 64o‚000 shows it was to bribe sixteen jurors with.

D.—-ALLEGED OTHER CoNVICTIONs OF CLUENTmS.

(ἓ 88) F urther‚ it is said Cluentius' bribery has often been

judicially derided. Absurd3 it never was tried be·

, fore. These ‘trials' were storms, not trials; some

make sor Cluentius3 some did not make against him ;
some never were dubbed trials before.

XXXIII. lst, C. Junius' condemnation was due to passing pre-

XXXIV.

XXXV.

judice23 (ξ 90) Quinctius indecently pressed it on.
And what he was fined for was irregularity in his
appointment, which was the fault of Verres; (ἓ 92)
it does not touch Cluentius, and was no fair trial.
(ἓ 94) How much better a precedent was Faustus
Sulla's case, which was postponed to secure a fair
hearing. (ἓ 95) Quinctius' influence bore down
everything ; the power of that office, the cases of Ρ.

 

